All that you need to start with RubySoul.
 * *[BuildKerberosExtension Read this page to build the the NsToken extension for kerberos authentication]*

=Configure RubySoul=
Edit the configuration file stored in *"conf/config.yml"*
{{{
#--- | Application config
:login: 'login_l'        #--- | Your login
:socks_password: ''      #--- | Socks password for md5 authentication
:unix_password: ''       #--- | Unix password for kerberos authentication (default if set)
:state: 'actif'          #--- | Could be, actif, away, idle, lock
:location: '@ Home'      #--- | Set your location
:user_group: 'etna_2008' #--- | Set your IONIS user group
:system: 'Unix'          #--- | Set your operating system
}}}

=Run RubySoul=
You can run rubysoul.rb script like this : 
{{{
ruby rubysoul.rb
}}}
*or*
{{{
./rubysoul.rb
}}}
RubySoul try to connect directly at start-up. If done you have a RubySoul prompt : 
{{{
rubysoul#> 
}}}
Now you can type `help` command to print help informations. You can type *credits* or *credit* command to know more about the application.

=Change your status=
NetSoul client many user status but 4 are implemented by all : *`actif`*, *`away`*, *`idle`*, *`lock`*. You can change your status with *state* command :
{{{
rubysoul#> state:away
}}}
Will change your status in *`away`*.

=Show your current status and your configuration information=
You can print informations with *show* command.
==Show your current status==
{{{
rubysoul#> show:state
}}}
==Show your configuration information==
{{{
rubysoul#> show:config
}}}

=Update your configuration file=
With *config* command you can change all the data in your config file. element who could be changed : *`login`*, *`socks_password`*, *`unix_password`*, *`state`*, *`location`*, *`user_group`*, *`system`*. Example : 
{{{
config:location:My house
}}}
Will set and save "My house" for your location in config file. This change will take effect after restarting RubySoul.

=Send a message=
You can send a message to one or more contact with *send_msg* command.
{{{
rubysoul#> send_msg:kakesa_c login_l:Hello guys !!!
}}}

=Print your contacts or connected contacts=
RubySoul can list your contact list or connected contacts with *list* command and *`contacts`*, *`connected_contacts`* sub command.
{{{
rubysoul#> list:contacts
rubysoul#> list:connected_contacts
}}}

=Add contacts to your contact list=
You can add one or more contacts with *add* command and *`contacts`* sub command.
{{{
rubysoul#> add:contacts:login_1 login_2
}}}

=Delete contacts from contact list=
You can delete one or more contacts with *del* command and *`contacts`* sub command.
{{{
rubysoul#> del:contacts:login_1 login_2
}}}

=Shell history=
You can retrieve old shell entered command with your keyboard arrow up and arrow down.  

=Exit the program=
Just type *q* or *quit* or *exit* command.